---
layout: post
title: "New Publication: RobMOT: Enhancing 3D Multi-Object Tracking Through Observational Noise and State Estimation Drift Mitigation in LiDAR Point Clouds. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (T-ITS)"
categories: announcements
excerpt: Information Fusion
---
# Abstract
This paper addresses limitations in 3D tracking-by-detection methods, particularly in identifying legitimate trajectories and reducing state estimation drift in Kalman filters. Existing methods often use threshold-based filtering for detection scores, which can fail for distant and occluded objects, leading to false positives. To tackle this, we propose a novel track validity mechanism and multi-stage observational gating process, significantly reducing ghost tracks and enhancing tracking performance. Our method achieves a 29.47% improvement in Multi-Object Tracking Accuracy (MOTA) on the KITTI validation dataset with the Second detector. Additionally, a refined Kalman filter term reduces localization noise, improving higher-order tracking accuracy (HOTA) by 4.8%. The online framework, RobMOT, outperforms state-of-the-art methods across multiple detectors, with HOTA improvements of up to 3.92% on the KITTI testing dataset and 8.7% on the validation dataset, while achieving low identity switch scores. RobMOT excels in challenging scenarios, tracking distant objects and prolonged occlusions, with a 1.77% MOTA improvement on the Waymo Open dataset, and operates at a remarkable 3221 FPS on a single CPU, proving its efficiency for real-time multi-object tracking.


> Mohamed Nagy, Naoufel Werghi, Bilal Hassan, Jorge Dias, Majid Khonji (2025). RobMOT: Enhancing 3D Multi-Object Tracking Through Observational Noise and State Estimation Drift Mitigation in LiDAR Point Clouds. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (T-ITS). [preprint](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11536)
