---
layout: post
title: "New Publication: Online Risk-Bounded Graph-Based Local Planning for Autonomous Driving with Theoretical Guarantees. ICRA 2025"
categories: announcements
excerpt: ICRA 2025
---
# Abstract
Risk-bounded motion planning for autonomous driving in dynamic environments presents significant research challenges. Ensuring continuous navigation towards a destination while making real-time decisions is a nonconvex problem. This paper presents a graph-based local planning method constrained by user-specific driving preference, represented as a risk-bound criterion for motion planning. First, we propose a lattice graph construction method that adheres to the vehicle’s curvature constraints. Then, we formulate the trajectory planning problem as an integer-linear programming task, addressed by our novel risk-bounded and prediction-aware constrained shortest path. Our solution accounts for both static and dynamic obstacles in urban settings, adhering to traffic regulations. At the core of our approach is a conservative spatiotemporal risk assessment mechanism, which evaluates collisions considering the uncertain delay from speed control of the ego vehicle and predicted trajectories of dynamic obstacles. We implemented our solution using the CARLA simulator and the ROS2 platform, within a comprehensive framework encompassing global planning, local planning, and vehicle control. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated through notable collision avoidance, improved path-tracking, and enhanced risk-bounded planning capabilities.

> Abdulrahman Hamdy, Majid Khonji, Khaled Elbassioni, Jorge Dias, Ameena Al Sumaiti (2025). “Online Risk-Bounded Graph-Based Local Planning for Autonomous Driving with Theoretical Guarantees.” IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). Atlanta, US.

